Ocean 240

Year	1982
RAM	128 - 320 kB
ROM	16 kB
CPU	i8080 2.4 MHz
Ports	Printer, RS232, 24 GPIO, tape, monitor, floppy
Graph	512x256x2, 256x256x4 palette 8 colors

"Ocean 240" is a rare Soviet computer. I wouldn't be surprised if only two
computers were released. But at the same time this computer is known. Its
circuit, PCB and description were published in the magazine MPSS 1986/2. You can
download the magazine here.

This computer was developed by the Institute of Oceanology of the USSR Academy
of Sciences. The magazine said that this computer was used on the ship. The
computer processed data received from underwater sensors. The computer uses the
CP/M operating system. The processing program was written on Pascal. There is a
site of the owner of one of the computers. The owner has written several useful
programs for this computer. In mid-1986, the next version of the 240.2 computer
was released, with vertical and horizontal hardware screen scrolling.

According to the characteristics, i can assume that computer is designed for
working in the CP/M operating system. The processor works almost at a maximum
frequency at 2.4 MHz. A screen resolution 256x256 or 512x256 pixels allows to
display 32 or 64 characters across the screen width. And there is still a
margin, the computer can display 80 characters across the screen width using
6x8 pixel font. There are two video pages. In 256x256 mode, 4 colors are
displayed from a palette of 8 colors. There are 8 fixed palettes. Hardware
vertical scrolling allows to work fast in the console. 128 - 320 kilobytes of
RAM allows to organize a RAM disk, since the CP/M operating system cannot use
more than 64 kilobytes.

I took photos from the site http://azmaster.narod.ru/Ocean-240. I decided to
duplicate the information about this computer so that it would not disappear.
